>LIGN 3. Language as a Social and Cultural Phenomenon (4)
The role of language in thought, myth, ritual, advertising, politics, and the law. Language variation, change, and loss; multilingualism, pidginization and creolization; language planning, standardization, and prescriptivism; writing systems. 
>LIGN 4. Language as a Cognitive System (4)
Fundamental issues in language and cognition. Differences between animal communication, sign systems, and human language; origins and evolution of language; neural basis of language; language acquisition in children and adults. 
>LIGN 5. The Linguistics of Invented Languages (4)
Introduction to the study of language through the investigation of invented languages, whether conscious (Elvish, Klingon, Esperanto) or unconscious (creoles, twin/sibling languages). Students will participate in the invention of a language fragment. Topics discussed include language structure, history, culture, and writing systems. 
>LIGN 6. Computers and Language (4)
>LIGN 7. Sign Languages and Their Cultures (4)
Deaf history since the eighteenth century. The structure of American Sign Language and comparison with oral languages. ASL poetry and narrative and Deaf people&#8217;s system of cultural knowledge. Basic questions concerning the nature of language and its relation to culture. 
>LIGN 8. Languages and Cultures in America (4)
Language in American culture and society. Standard and nonstandard English in school, media, pop culture, politics; bilingualism and education; cultural perception of language issues over time; languages and cultures in the &#8220;melting pot,&#8221; including Native American, Hispanic, African American, Deaf. 
>LIGN 9GS. Sign Languages and Deaf Culture in the U.S. and France
>LIGN 17. Making and Breaking Codes (4)
A rigorous analysis of symbolic systems and their interpretations. Students will learn to encode and decode information using progressively more sophisticated methods; topics covered include ancient and modern phonetic writing systems, hieroglyphics, computer languages, and ciphers (secret codes). 
>LIGN 42. The Linguistics of the Internet (4)
>LIGN 87. First-year Student Seminar (1)
>LIGN 101. Introduction to the Study of Language (4)
Language is what makes us human, but how does it work? This course focuses on speech sounds and sound patterns, how words are formed, organized into sentences, and understood, how language changes, and how it is learned. 
>LIGN 105. Law and Language (4)
The interpretation of language in understanding the law: 1) the language of courtroom interaction (hearsay, jury instructions); 2) written legal language (contracts, ambiguity, legal fictions); 3) language-based issues in the law (First Amendment, libel and slander). 
>LIGN 108. Languages of Africa (4)
Africa is home to an astonishing variety of languages. This course investigates the characteristics of the major language families as well as population movements and language contact, and how governments attempt to regulate language use. 
>LIGN 110. Phonetics (4)
The study of sounds that are used in human languages. How speech sounds are physically produced; acoustics of speech; speech perception; practical training in phonetic transcription and in interpreting visual representations of the acoustic signal. The class covers both English and its dialects and languages other than English. 
>LIGN 111. Phonology I (4)
Why does one language sound different from another? This course analyzes how languages organize sounds into different patterns, how those sounds interact, and how they fit into larger units, such as syllables. Focus on a wide variety of languages and problem solving. 
>LIGN 112. Speech Sounds and Speech Disorders (4)
How do we measure differences in the way sounds are produced and perceived? This course focuses on measuring and analyzing the acoustic and auditory properties of sounds as they occur in nonpathological and pathological speech. 
>LIGN 113. Hearing Science and Hearing Disorders (4)
>LIGN 115. Phonology II (4)
>LIGN 118. The Language of Comics (4)
>LIGN 119. First and Second Language Learning: From Childhood through Adolescence (4)
(Same as EDS 119) An examination of how human language learning ability develops and changes over the first two decades of life, including discussion of factors that may affect this ability. 
>LIGN 120. Morphology (4)
How do some languages express with one word complex meanings that English needs several words to express? Discovery of underlying principles of word formation through problem solving and analysis of data from a wide variety of languages. 
>LIGN 121. Syntax I (4)
What universal principles determine how words combine into phrases and sentences? Introduction to research methods and results. Emphasis on how argumentation in problem-solving can be used in the development of theories of language. 
>LIGN 125. Syntax II (4)
>LIGN 130. Semantics (4)
Introduction to the formal study of meaning. What is the meaning of a word? What is the meaning of a sentence? Which role does the context play in determining linguistic meaning? 
>LIGN 139. Field Methods (4)
>LIGN 141. Language Structures (4)
>LIGN 143. The Structure of Spanish (4)
Surveys aspects of Spanish phonetics, phonology, morphology, and syntax. Topics include dialect differences between Latin American and Peninsular Spanish (both from a historical and contemporary viewpoint), gender classes, verbal morphology, and clause structure. 
>LIGN 144. Discourse Analysis: American Sign Language and Performing Arts (4)
This course provides a discourse-centered examination of ASL verbal arts: rhyme, meter, rhythm, handedness, non-manual signals, and spatial mapping; creation of scene and mood; properties of character, dialogue, narration, and voice; cultural tropes; poetic constructions in every genre; transcription, body memory, and performance. The course will be conducted entirely in ASL with no spoken English. 
>LIGN 146. Sociolinguistics in Deaf Communities (4)
This course provides an examination of sociolinguistic research on Deaf communities throughout the world, including sociohistorical contexts for phonological, lexical, and syntactic variation, contact between languages, multilingualism, language policies, and planning, second language learning, language attitudes, and discourse analysis of specific social contexts. The course will be conducted entirely in ASL with no spoken English. 
>LIGN 148. The Psycholinguistics of Gesture and Sign Languages (4)
>LIGN 149GS. The Historical Roots of American Sign Language (4)
>LIGN 150. Historical Linguistics (4)
Language is constantly changing. This course investigates the nature of language change, how to determine a language&#8217;s history, its relationship to other languages, and the search for common ancestors or &#8220;protolanguage.&#8221; 
>LIGN 152. Indigenous Languages of the Americas (4)
>LIGN 154. Language and Consciousness (4)
>LIGN 155. Evolution of Language (4)
History of thought on language origins, genetic, neural, anatomical, and gestural theories of language evolution in relation to prior hominid and other species, the role of generational differences in language acquisition, and computational models.<span class="italic"> 
>LIGN 160. Pragmatics (4)
An introduction to the context-dependent aspects of language meaning. Topics include given versus new information, Gricean maxims and rules of conversation, presupposition, implicature, reference and cognitive status, discourse coherence and structure, and speech acts. 
>LIGN 165. Computational Linguistics (4)
An introduction to the fundamental concepts of computational linguistics, in which we study natural language syntax and semantics from an interpretation perspective, describe methods for programming computer systems to perform such interpretation, and survey applications of computational linguistics technology. 
>LIGN 167. Deep Learning for Natural Language Understanding (4)
>LIGN 168. Computational Speech Processing (4)
>LIGN 170. Psycholinguistics (4)
The study of how humans learn, represent, comprehend, and produce language. Topics include visual and auditory recognition of words, sentence comprehension, reading, sentence production, language acquisition, neural representation of language, bilingualism, and language disorders. 
>LIGN 171. Child Language Acquisition (4)
A central cognitive, developmental mystery is how children learn their first language. Overview of research in the learning of sound systems, word forms and word meanings, and word combinations. Exploration of the relation between cognitive and language development. 
>LIGN 172. Psycholinguistics Laboratory Projects (4)
A project-oriented laboratory course (research) in which students learn and use experimental design, and are guided to develop their own ideas and tools, along with using state-of-the-art instruments to investigate a linguistic problem of current interest, under the direction of the instructor. A range of current topics in psycholinguistics is available including sentence and discourse processing, word comprehension and production, and cross-linguistic research. 
>LIGN 174. Gender and Language in Society (4)
>LIGN 175. Sociolinguistics (4)
The study of language in its social context, with emphasis on the different types of linguistic variation and the principles underlying them. Dialects, registers, gender-based linguistic differences, multilingualism, pidginization and creolization, factors influencing linguistic choice, formal models of variation; emphasis is given both to socially determined differences within the United States and US ethnic groups and to cross-cultural differences in language use and variation. 
>LIGN 176. Language of Politics and Advertising (4)
How can we explain the difference between what is literally said versus what is actually conveyed in the language of law, politics, and advertising? How people&#8217;s ordinary command of language and their reasoning skills are used to manipulate them. 
>LIGN 177. Multilingualism (4)
Official and minority languages, pidgins and Creoles, language planning, bilingual education and literacy, code switching, and language attrition. 
>LIGN 178. Spanish Sociolinguistics (4)
>LIGN 179. Second Language Acquisition Research (4)
This course will investigate topics in second language acquisition including the critical period, the processing and neural representation of language in bilinguals, theories of second language acquisition and creolization, exceptional language learners, and parallels with first language acquisition. 
>LIGN 180. Language Representation in the Brain (4)
The mind/body problem, modularity, basic neuroanatomy, cerebral lateralization, re-evaluation of classical language areas, aphasia, dyslexia, the KE family and FOXP2 gene, mirror neurons, sign language, brain development, cortical plasticity, and localization studies of language processing (electrical stimulation, MEG, fMRI, and PET). Students may not receive credit for both LIGN 172 and LIGN 180. <span class="italic">
>LIGN 181. Language Processing in the Brain (4)
Modularity and models of language processing, basic neurophysiology, EEG/MEG, linguistic event-related brain potentials (ERPs), crosslinguistic functional significance of ERP components and their MEG correlates: N400, N400-700, lexical processing negativity, slow anterior negative potentials, (early) left anterior negativity, and late positivity. <span class="italic">
>LIGN 187. Seminar on Special Topics (4)
Special topics in linguistics are discussed. <span class="italic">
>LIGN 188R. Introduction to Research Methods in Linguistics (2&#8211;4)
>LIGN 192. Senior Seminar in Linguistics (1)
The Senior Seminar Program is designed to allow senior undergraduates to meet with faculty members in a small group setting to explore an intellectual topic in linguistics (at the upper-division level). Senior Seminars may be offered in all campus departments. Topics will vary from quarter to quarter. Senior Seminars may be taken for credit up to four times, with a change in topic, and permission of the department. Enrollment is limited to twenty students, with preference given to seniors. 
>LIGN 195. Apprentice Teaching (0&#8211;4)
Students lead a class section of a lower-division linguistics course. They also attend a weekly meeting on teaching methods. (This course does not count toward minor or major.) May be repeated for credit, up to a maximum of four units. (P/NP grades only.) 
>LIGN 197. Linguistics Internship (2 or 4)
The student will undertake a program of practical research in a supervised work environment. Topics to be researched may vary, but in each case the course will provide skills for carrying out these studies. 
>LIGN 199. Independent Study in Linguistics (2 or 4)
The student undertakes a program of research or advanced reading in linguistics under the supervision of a faculty member of the Department of Linguistics. (P/NP grades only.) 
>LIGN 199H. Honors Independent Study in Linguistics (4)
The student undertakes a program of research and advanced reading in linguistics under the supervision of a faculty member in the Department of Linguistics. (P/NP grades only.) 
>LIGN 200. Research Forum (2)
>LIGN 210. Phonetics (4)
This is an introduction to articulatory, acoustic, and auditory phonetics. Major phonetic theories in these areas, and the relationship between phonetics and phonology are discussed. The course also covers experimental design and methodology and provides hands-on experience with laboratory equipment. 
>LIGN 211. Phonology (4)
>LIGN 214. Topics in Phonetics (4)
This course examines recent developments in controversial areas of phonetics. Topics will vary and will address issues in speech production (articulation, acoustics), speech perception, phonetic theory, and the relationship between phonetics and phonology. May be repeated for credit up to two times. 
>LIGN 215. Topics in Phonology (4)
>LIGN 220. Morphology (4)
>LIGN 221. Syntax (4)
>LIGN 225. Topics in Syntax (4)
>LIGN 228. Probabilistic Models of Cognition (4)
>LIGN 230. Semantics (4)
>LIGN 232. Semantic Development (4)
>LIGN 235. Topics in Semantics (2&#8211;4)
>LIGN 238. Topics in Cognitive Linguistics (0&#8211;4)
>LIGN 240. Field Methods (4)
Techniques of discovering the structure of a language through elicitation of data from native speaker consultants. Phonemic, morphemic, and syntactic analysis. 
>LIGN 241. Fieldwork (4)
Fieldwork continuing the research of the previous quarter; student-directed elicitations on topics of interest. 
>LIGN 245. Computational Corpus Linguistics (4)
>LIGN 247. Topics in Pragmatics (2&#8211;4)
Advanced material covering particular topics relating to the theoretical analysis of the pragmatics of natural languages. May be repeated for credit up to three times as topics vary. 
>LIGN 248. Topics in Morphology (4)
Descriptive and theoretical problems in morphology. Theoretical and empirical consequences of alternative analyses. May be repeated for credit up to three times as topics vary. 
>LIGN 251. Probabilistic Methods in Linguistics (4)
>LIGN 252. Advanced Probabilistic Models of Language (4)
>LIGN 255. Topics in Language Evolution (4)
>LIGN 256. Statistical Natural Language Processing (4)
(Same as CSE 256.) Introduction to modern statistical approaches to natural language processing: part-of-speech tagging, word-sense disambiguation and parsing, using Markov models, hidden Markov models, and probabilistic context-free grammars. Recommended <em>Prerequisites:</em> one of LIGN 165, LIGN 245, CSE 151, CSE 250A, CSE 254. 
>LIGN 266. Computational Pragmatics (4)
>LIGN 270. Topics in Psycholinguistics (4)
>LIGN 271. Advanced Topics in Psycholinguistics (4)
>LIGN 272. Topics in Neurolinguistics (4)
>LIGN 274. Computational Psycholinguistics (4)
>LIGN 279. Topics in Language Acquisition (4)
Language acquisition is central to theories about human development, cognition, brain organization, and language origins and change. Topics include the role of input and critical periods on language outcome and processing, neural organization, and sign language creation. 
>LIGN 280. Sign Language Research (4)
An overview of sign language research in terms of how it informs language theory. Topics include the structure of ASL, acquisition, psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic processing of sign language in comparison to spoken language, critical period effects, and language evolution. 
>LIGN 281. Language Acquisition Theory and Research (4)
>LIGN 282. Biology and Environment in Language Acquisition (4)
>LIGN 283. Language and Conceptual Development (4)
>LIGN 284. Topics in Sign Language Research (4)
>LIGN 287. Seminar on Special Topics (4)
Special topics in linguistics are discussed. 
>LIGN 293. Research Practicum (0&#8211;4)
>LIGN 296. Directed Research (1&#8211;8)
>LIGN 299. Doctoral Research (1&#8211;12)
Directed research on dissertation topic for students who have been admitted to candidacy for the PhD degree. May be repeated for credit. 
>LIGN 500. Linguistics Graduate Instructional Assistant Training (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 502. Apprentice Teaching of Linguistics (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 503. Apprentice Teaching of American Sign Language (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 504. Apprentice Teaching of French (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 505. Apprentice Teaching of German (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 506. Apprentice Teaching of Italian (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 507. Apprentice Teaching of Spanish (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 508. Apprentice Teaching of Language/Directed Study (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 509. Apprentice Teaching, Head Teaching Assistant (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 510. Apprentice Teaching of Arabic (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 511. Apprentice Teaching of Portuguese (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 512. Apprentice Teaching of Heritage Korean (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 513. Apprentice Teaching of Heritage Vietnamese (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 514. Apprentice Teaching of Heritage Persian (1&#8211;4)
>LIGN 515. Apprentice Teaching of Heritage Filipino (1&#8211;4)
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1A. American Sign Language Conversation (2.5)
Small tutorial meetings with a signer of American Sign Language (ASL). Conversational practice organized around common everyday communicative situations. Must be taken with LISL 1AX. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1AX. Analysis of American Sign Language (2.5)
Study of American Sign Language (ASL) and analysis of its syntactic, morphological, and phonological features. Readings and discussions of cultural information. The course is taught entirely in ASL. Must be taken with LISL 1A. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1AR. Introduction to ASL and American Deaf Culture (2.5)
Students learn ASL to communicate in everyday interactions by engaging in small group conversations. Covers key linguistic structures, including sentence types, movement, space, facial expressions, and fingerspelling. Students discover the American deaf culture, including deaf history, diversity within today&#8217;s deaf community, iconic roots of signs, international signs used in the global deaf community, and techniques of ASL storytelling. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1B. American Sign Language Conversation (2.5)
Small tutorial meetings with a signer of American Sign Language (ASL). Conversational practice organized around common everyday communicative situations. Must be taken with LISL 1BX. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1BX. Analysis of American Sign Language (2.5)
Study of American Sign Language (ASL) and analysis of its syntactic, morphological, and phonological features. Readings and discussions of cultural information. The course is taught entirely in ASL. Must be taken with LISL 1B. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1C. American Sign Language Conversation (2.5)
Small tutorial meetings with a signer of American Sign Language (ASL). Conversational practice organized around common everyday communicative situations. Must be taken with LISL 1CX. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1CX. Analysis of American Sign Language (2.5)
Study of American Sign Language (ASL) and analysis of its syntactic, morphological, and phonological features. Readings and discussions of cultural information. The course is taught entirely in ASL. Must be taken with LISL 1C. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1D. American Sign Language Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in American Sign Language. Emphasis on developing signing fluency and greater cultural awareness. Practice of the principal language functions needed for successful communication. Must be taken in conjunction with LISL 1DX. Successful completion of LISL 1D and LISL 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1DX. Analysis of American Sign Language (2.5)
Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in American Sign Language. Must be taken in conjunction with LISL 1D. Successful completion of LISL 1D and LISL 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 1E. Intermediate American Sign Language Conversation (4)
Course aims to improve language skills through discussion of topics relevant to the Deaf community. Central topics will include education and American Sign Language (ASL) literature. Conducted entirely in American Sign Language. 
>Linguistics/American Sign Language (LISL) 5A, 5B, 5C. Fundamentals of American Sign Language (5)
This course concentrates on those language skills essential for communication: signing, comprehension, grammar analysis, and deaf culture. UC San Diego students: LISL 5A is equivalent to LISL 1A/1AX, LISL 5B to LISL 1B/BX, and LISL 5C to LISL 1C/1CX. Enrollment is limited. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1A. Arabic Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1AX. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1AX. Analysis of Arabic (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1A. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1B. Arabic Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1BX. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1BX. Analysis of Arabic (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1B. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1C. Arabic Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1CX. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1CX. Analysis of Arabic (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1C. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1D. Arabic Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1DX. Successful completion of LIAB 1D and 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1DX. Analysis of Arabic (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught entirely in Arabic. Must be taken in conjunction with LIAB 1D. Successful completion of LIAB 1D and 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1E. Intermediate Arabic Conversation and Analysis (4)
A course to increase proficiency in written and spoken Arabic for students at the intermediate level. Attention to listening comprehension, conversation, vocabulary, reading, grammar analysis, and culture. 
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1F. Intermediate Arabic Conversation and Analysis (4)
A course to increase the proficiency level of students who have completed LIAB 1E or who are at an equivalent level. Attention to listening comprehension, conversation, vocabulary building, reading, grammar analysis, and culture. <span class="italic">
>Linguistics/Arabic (LIAB) 1G. Advanced Arabic (4)
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1A. French Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1AX. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1AX. Analysis of French (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in French. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1A. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1B. French Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1BX. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1BX. Analysis of French (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in French. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1B. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1C. French Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1CX. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1CX. Analysis of French (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in French. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1C. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1D. French Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in French. Emphasis on speaking, reading, writing, and culture. Practice of the language functions needed for successful communication. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1DX. Successful completion of LIFR 1D and LIFR 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 1DX. Analysis of French (2.5)
Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in French. Must be taken in conjunction with LIFR 1D. Successful completion of LIFR 1D and LIFR 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 5B, 5C, 5D. Fundamentals of French (5)
This course concentrates on those language skills essential for communication: listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing, and grammar analysis. UC San Diego students: LIFR 5A is equivalent to LIFR 1A/1AX, LIFR 5B to LIFR 1B/1BX, LIFR 5C to LIFR 1C/1CX, and LIFR 5D to LIFR 1D/1DX. Enrollment is limited. 
>Linguistics/French (LIFR) 11. Elementary French Reading (2&#8211;4)
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1A. German Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1AX. 
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1AX. Analysis of German (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in German. Must be taken with LIGM 1A. 
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1B. German Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1BX. 
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1BX. Analysis of German (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in German. Must be taken with LIGM 1B. 
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1C. German Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1CX. 
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1CX. Analysis of German (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in German. Must be taken with LIGM 1C. 
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1D. German Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in German. Emphasis on speaking, reading, writing, and culture. Practice of the language functions needed for successful communication. Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1DX. Successful completion of LIGM 1D and LIGM 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. 
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 1DX. Analysis of German (2.5)
Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in German. Must be taken in conjunction with LIGM 1D. Successful completion of LIGM 1D and LIGM 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. 
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 11. Elementary German Reading (2&#8211;4)
>Linguistics/German (LIGM) 5A, 5B, 5C, 5D. Fundamentals of German (5)
This course concentrates on those language skills essential for communication: listening comprehension, reading, writing, and grammar analysis. UC San Diego students: LIGM 5A is equivalent to LIGM 1A/1AX, LIGM 5B to LIGM 1B/1BX, and LIGM 5C to LIGM 1C/1CX. Enrollment is limited. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 16. Arabic Literacy for Arabic Speakers (4)
For students who already comprehend informal spoken Arabic but who have little or no reading and writing skills. Topics include the Arabic alphabet, basic reading and writing, and differences between colloquial and written Arabic. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 17. Persian Literacy for Persian Speakers (4)
For students who already comprehend informal spoken Persian but who have little or no reading and writing skills. Topics include the Persian alphabet, basic reading and writing, and differences between colloquial and written Persian. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 112F. Filipino for Filipino Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Filipino but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Filipino. May not receive credit for both LIHL112 and LIHL112F. Courses may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 112W. Filipino for Filipino Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Filipino but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Filipino. May not receive credit for both LIHL112 and LIHL112W. Courses may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 112P. Filipino for Filipino Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Filipino but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Filipino. May not receive credit for both LIHL112 and LIHL112P. Courses may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 132F. Advanced Filipino for Filipino Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Filipino. LIHL 132F, LIHL 132W, and LIHL 132P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 132W. Advanced Filipino for Filipino Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Filipino. LIHL 132F, LIHL 132W, and LIHL 132P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 132P. Advanced Filipino for Filipino Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Filipino. LIHL 132F, LIHL 132W, and LIHL 132P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 113. Armenian for Armenian Speakers (4)
For students who already comprehend informal spoken Armenian but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and culture; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Armenian. Some speaking ability in Armenian recommended. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 114F. Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Vietnamese but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Vietnamese. LIHL 114F, LIHL 114W, and LIHL 114P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 114W. Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Vietnamese but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Vietnamese. LIHL 114F, LIHL 114W, and LIHL 114P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 114P. Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 124F. Intermediate Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 124W. Intermediate Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 124P. Intermediate Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 134F. Advanced Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Vietnamese. LIHL 134F, LIHL 134W, and LIHL 134P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 134W. Advanced Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Vietnamese. LIHL 134F, LIHL 134W, and LIHL 134P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 134P. Advanced Vietnamese for Vietnamese Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Vietnamese. LIHL 134F, LIHL 134W, and LIHL 134P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 115F. Korean for Korean Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Korean but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Korean. LIHL 115F, LIHL 115W, and LIHL 115P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 115W. Korean for Korean Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Korean but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Korean. LIHL 115F, LIHL 115W, and LIHL 115P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 115P. Korean for Korean Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Korean but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Korean. LIHL 115F, LIHL 115W, and LIHL 115P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 135F. Advanced Korean for Korean Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Korean LIHL 135F, LIHL 135W, and LIHL 135P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 135W. Advanced Korean for Korean Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Korean. LIHL 135F, LIHL 135W, and LIHL 135P may be taken in any order.
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 135P. Advanced Korean for Korean Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Korean. LIHL 135F, LIHL 135W, and LIHL 135P may be taken in any order.
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 116F. Arabic for Arabic Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Arabic but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Arabic. LIHL 116F, LIHL 116W, and LIHL 116P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 116W. Arabic for Arabic Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Arabic but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Arabic. LIHL 116F, LIHL 116W, and LIHL 116P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 116P. Arabic for Arabic Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Arabic but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Arabic. LIHL 116F, LIHL 116W, and LIHL 116P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 136. Advanced Arabic for Arabic Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language functions required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Arabic. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 117F. Persian for Persian Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Persian but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Persian. LIHL 117F, LIHL 117W, and LIHL 117P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 117W. Persian for Persian Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Persian but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and media/arts; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Persian. LIHL 117F, LIHL 117W, and LIHL 117P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 117P. Persian for Persian Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Persian but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Persian. LIHL 117F, LIHL 117W, and LIHL 117P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 137F. Advanced Persian for Persian Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Persian. LIHL 137F, LIHL 137W, and LIHL 137P may be taken in any order.
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 137W. Advanced Persian for Persian Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Persian. LIHL 137F, LIHL 137W, and LIHL 137P may be taken in any order.
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 137P. Advanced Persian for Persian Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Persian. LIHL 137F, LIHL 137W, and LIHL 137P may be taken in any order.
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 118. Cantonese for Cantonese Speakers (4)
For students who already comprehend informal spoken Cantonese but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and culture; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Cantonese. Some speaking ability in Cantonese recommended. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 138. Advanced Cantonese for Cantonese Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language functions required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Cantonese. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 119F. Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Hindi but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and family life/festivals; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Hindi. LIHL 119F, LIHL 119W, and LIHL 119P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 119W. Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Hindi but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and family media/arts; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Hindi. LIHL 119F, LIHL 119W, and LIHL 119P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 119P. Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)
For students who comprehend informal spoken Hindi but wish to improve their communicative and sociocultural competence and their analytic understanding. Language functions for oral communication, reading, writing, and entertainment/culture; dialect and language style differences; structure and history of Hindi. LIHL 119F, LIHL 119W, and LIHL 119P may be taken in any order. 
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 139F. Advanced Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on domestic culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Hindi. LIHL 139F, LIHL 139W, and LIHL 139P may be taken in any order.
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 139W. Advanced Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on media/arts. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Hindi. LIHL 139F, LIHL 139W, and LIHL 139P may be taken in any order.
>Linguistics/Heritage Languages (LIHL) 139P. Advanced Hindi for Hindi Speakers (4)
Instruction stresses language function required for advanced oral communication, reading, writing, and cultural understanding in professional contexts, with emphasis on entertainment/culture. High-level vocabulary and texts; dialect differences and formal language styles (registers). Advanced structural analysis and history of Hindi. LIHL 139F, LIHL 139W, and LIHL 139P may be taken in any order.
>Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1A. Hindi Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1AX. 
>Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1AX. Analysis of Hindi (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught entirely in Hindi. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1A. 
>Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1B. Hindi Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1BX. 
>Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1BX. Analysis of Hindi (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught entirely in Hindi. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1B. 
>Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1C. Hindi Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1CX. 
>Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1CX. Analysis of Hindi (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught entirely in Hindi. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1C. 
>Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1D. Hindi Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1DX. 
>Linguistics/Hindi (LIHI) 1DX. Analysis of Hindi (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. This course is taught entirely in Hindi. Must be taken in conjunction with LIHI 1D. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1A. Italian Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1AX. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1AX. Analysis of Italian (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in Italian. Must be taken with LIIT 1A. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1B. Italian Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1BX. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1BX. Analysis of Italian (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in Italian. Must be taken with LIIT 1B. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1C. Italian Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1CX. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1CX. Analysis of Italian (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in Italian. Must be taken with LIIT 1C. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1D. Italian Conversation (2.5)
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 1DX. Analysis of Italian (2.5)
Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in Italian. Must be taken in conjunction with LIIT 1D. <em>Successful completion of LIIT 1D and LIIT 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. </em>
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 5AS. Fundamentals of Italian I (5)
A communicative introduction to Italian for students with no prior exposure, with attention to listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing, grammar analysis, and culture. Equivalent to LIIT 1A/1AX. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 5BS. Fundamentals of Italian II (5)
A course to increase the proficiency level of students who have completed LIIT 1A/1AX, 5AS or who are at an equivalent level. Attention to listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing, grammar analysis, and culture. Equivalent to LIIT 1B/1BX. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 5CS. Fundamentals of Italian III (5)
A course to increase the proficiency level of students who have completed LIIT 1B/1BX, 5BS or who are at an equivalent level. Attention to listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing, grammar analysis, and culture. Equivalent to LIIT 1C/1CX. 
>Linguistics/Italian (LIIT) 5DS. Fundamentals of Italian IV (5)
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1A. Portuguese Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Emphasis on the language and culture of Brazil. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1AX. 
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1AX. Analysis of Portuguese (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and reading. The course is taught entirely in Portuguese. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1A. 
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1B. Portuguese Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Emphasis on the language and culture of Brazil. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1BX. 
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1BX. Analysis of Portuguese (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and reading. The course is taught entirely in Portuguese. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1B. 
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1C. Portuguese Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Emphasis on the language and culture of Brazil. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1CX. 
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1CX. Analysis of Portuguese (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and reading. The course is taught entirely in Portuguese. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1C. 
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1D. Portuguese Conversation (2.5)
Small conversion sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1DX. Successful completion of LIPO 1D and LIPO 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. 
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 1DX. Analysis of Portuguese (2.5)
Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in Portuguese. Must be taken in conjunction with LIPO 1D. Successful completion of LIPO 1D and LIPO 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Revelle and Eleanor Roosevelt Colleges. 
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 15. Intermediate Brazilian Portuguese for the Social Sciences: Social Movements (2.0)
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 16. Intermediate Brazilian Portuguese for the Social Sciences: Cultural Movements (2.0)
>Linguistics/Portuguese (LIPO) 17. Intermediate Brazilian Portuguese for the Social Sciences: Ethnicity (2.0)
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1A. Spanish Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1AX. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1AX. Analysis of Spanish (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in Spanish. Must be taken with LISP 1A. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1B. Spanish Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1BX. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1BX. Analysis of Spanish (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in Spanish. Must be taken with LISP 1B. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1C. Spanish Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in the target language. Emphasis on listening comprehension, speaking, vocabulary building, reading, and culture. Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1CX. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1CX. Analysis of Spanish (2.5)
Presentation and practice of the basic grammatical structures needed for oral and written communication and for reading. The course is taught entirely in Spanish. Must be taken with LISP 1C. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1D. Spanish Conversation (2.5)
Small conversation sections taught entirely in Spanish. Emphasis on speaking, reading, writing, and culture. Practice of the language functions needed for successful communication. Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1DX. Successful completion of LISP 1D and LISP 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 1DX. Analysis of Spanish (2.5)
Practice of the grammatical functions indispensable for comprehensible communication in the language. The course is taught entirely in Spanish. Must be taken in conjunction with LISP 1D. Successful completion of LISP 1D and LISP 1DX satisfies the requirement for language proficiency in Eleanor Roosevelt and Revelle Colleges. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 5A, 5B, 5C, 5D. Fundamentals of Spanish (5)
This course concentrates on those language skills essential for communication: listening comprehension, conversation, reading, writing, and grammar analysis. UC San Diego students: LISP 5A is equivalent to LISP 1A/1AX, LISP 5B to LISP 5B/5BX, LISP 5C to LISP 1C/1CX and LISP 5D to LISP 1D/1DX. Enrollment is limited. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 15, 16, 17. Intermediate Spanish for the Social Sciences (2)
Conducted entirely in Spanish. Course aims to improve oral language skills through discussions of social science topics, with emphasis on political events and current affairs. Course materials encompass televised news broadcasts, newspapers and periodicals. LISP 15 is offered fall quarter only, LISP 16 is offered winter quarter only, and LISP 17 is offered spring quarter only. Each course may be taken one time and need not be taken in sequence. 
>Linguistics/Spanish (LISP) 18. Intermediate Spanish for the Health Sciences (2)
>Linguistics (LIDS) 19. Directed Study&#8212;Language (2&#8211;4)
